# Air-Pollution-and-Mobility-COVID-19
May 2020

The historic COVID-19 pandemic has caused nearly 50% of the world population to be subject to government “stay-at-home” orders. This sudden, drastic reduction in the mobility of the population has generated a natural experiment that tests the effect a near halt of mobility for individuals and drastic reduction of commercial operations would have on air quality. The metric used for this study is the mean daily mobility of individuals in a given US county. On these criteria, five major counties were selected with the greatest reduction in mobility of its citizens and five major counties with the lowest. A major county is defined as being in the top 40 most populous counties in the US, per the US Census Bureau. The time period of this study is February 28 through March 27, which is the time during which some US counties enacted “shelter-in-place” order to control the community spread of COVID-19. The five counties with the greatest reduction in citizen mobility issued “shelter-in-place” orders during this period. The five counties with the least mobility reduction had no “shelter-in-place” orders during the studied time period and can serve as a control group. The finding of this data visualization study will serve to convey the quantity of air pollution generated by the mobility individuals alone.

Counties of Interest:

Counties that decreased mobility 98-100% between Feb. 28 to Mar. 27. (Glanz, J., et al., 2020). New York Times.

Arlington, VA
District of Columbia, DC
New York, NY
San Francisco, CA
Santa Clara, CA

Most populous counties that decreased mobility 30% or less between Feb. 28 to Mar. 27. (Glanz, J., et al., 2020). New York Times.

Miami-Dade, FL
Dallas, TX
Harris, TX
Maricopa, AZ
San Bernardino County, CA
